# Learning Journal 7th April 2022
## Day 4: Typescript Basics
## What I had learnt today
### Typescript Basics: Object Types
* - [x] **Interface as Object Type**
  * Declaring parameter type as interface in a function.
  * Declaring data type to the output.
<pre>
interface People {
    name: string,
    height: number
};
const greet = (person: <b>People</b>): <b>string</b> => {
    return `Hello my name is ${person.name} and my height is ${person.height}m.`;
};
</pre>

* - [x] **Type as Object Type**
  * Declaring parameter type as type in a function.
  * Declaring data type to the output.
<pre>
type Dogs = {
    breed: string,
    age: number
};

const handleDog = (dog: <b>Dogs</b>): <b>string</b> => {
    return `I have a ${dog.breed} name Bubu. He is ${dog.age} years old.`;
}
</pre>

### Useful link
### *[Differences between interface and type](https://blog.logrocket.com/types-vs-interfaces-in-typescript/)*

---

* - [x] **Extending Type extends**
  * Keyword extends can only be use in classes and interfaces.
  * TypeScript allows interface extends to a class or interface extends interface.
  * When extends is declare it inherits the properties and methods of the parent class or interface.
  * Example below shows interface extends interface.
<pre>
interface Miniforce {
    charName: string,
    color: string,
    height: number,
    havePower: true
}

interface Weapons <b>extends Miniforce</b> {
    default: string;
}

const character: Weapons = {
    <b>charName</b>: "Max",
    <b>color</b>: "Yellow",
    <b>height</b>: 1.3,
    <b>havePower</b>: true,
    default: "Dinor Machine"
}
</pre>
### Useful link
### *[How to Extend Interfaces in TypeScript](https://www.typescripttutorial.net/typescript-tutorial/typescript-extend-interface/#:~:text=Interfaces%20extending%20classes,not%20just%20the%20public%20members.)*
---
* - [x] **Intersection Type**
  * An intersection type combines two or more types to create a new type that has all properties of the existing types.
  * Example below shows two interfaces combine to one type.
<pre>
interface <b>User</b> {
    id: number;
    name: string;
}

interface <b>Contact</b> {
    phone: number;
    email: string;
}

type Customer = <b>User & Contact</b>;
</pre>

### Useful link
### *[TypeScript Intersection Types](https://www.typescripttutorial.net/typescript-tutorial/typescript-intersection-types/)*
---
### Typescript Basics: Class
* - [x] **Define class, create instance, method, extends, member visibility, 'this' type, optional**
  * For my understanding, I had included the preceding actions in a single class.
<pre>
class Movie {
    <b>private</b> name: string;
    <b>private</b> duration: number;
    <b>private</b> rating: number;
    <b>private</b> isPG13: boolean;

    constructor(name <b>?</b>: string, duration <b>?</b>: number, rating <b>?</b>: number, isPG13 <b>?</b>: boolean) {
         <b>this</b>.name = name;
         <b>this</b>.duration = duration;
         <b>this</b>.rating = rating;
         <b>this</b>.isPG13 = isPG13;
    }

     <b>getMovie()</b> {
        console.log(`Movie name: ${this.name}, Duration: ${this.duration} mins, Rating: ${this.rating} / 5, PG13: ${this.isPG13}`);    
    }
}

class Casting  <b>extends</b> Movie {
<em><b>//TypeScript can omit the declaration of the property here but need to declare the access modifier
in constructor parameter</b></em>
    // actor: string;
    // actress: string;   
    constructor( <b>public</b> actor?: string,  <b>public</b> actress?: string,  <b>public</b> director?: string) {
        <b>super("Maxtrix Resurrection", 148, 4.8, true)</b>;
        this.actor = actor;
        this.actress = actress;
        this.director = director;
    }

    <b>getMovieDescription()</b> {
        console.log(`${this.actor} and ${this.actress} are the main casting and the movie is directed by ${this.director}`)
    }
}

let casting = <b>new Casting</b>("Keanu Reeves", "Carrie-Anne Moss", "Lana Wachowski");
casting.getMovie();
casting.getMovieDescription();
</pre>
### Challenges
I was stuck in passing argument for the parent class in order to let child class to call the parent method 'getMovie()'. Luckily as usual, our Mr Google had help me to solve this dead knot for me. 
### Solution
Because using extends, a child class can call the parent class method. But we can't pass the argument to the parent class like child class did in his new instance. To pass argument to parent class, we need to access the super() in the child class constructor. Like this: <b>super("Maxtrix Resurrection", 148, 4.8, true)</b>; This is a new finding to me. :)
  
