<h1>Learning Journal 09th May 2022</h1>
<h2>Day 22: React Native Restaurant App - With Custom Hook</h2>
<h3>What I Learnt Today</h3>
<h4>1. Building Of Custom Hooks</h4>
<ul>
  <li>The advantage of creating own custom hooks is that we can reuse them on other components if same logic is needed.</li>
  <li>Custom hook function's name always start with 'use'. This is to allow react to do the linking and error checking rules to ensure the codes are working. </li>
  <li>Easy to maintain as custom hook stay in one location, rather than scatter around the components.</li>
</ul>
<h4>2. useLogin()</h4>
<ul>
  <li>The initial state of isLoggedIn is set to false.</li>
  <li>If login is true, user can view the detail page, otherwise when user click detail page it will navigate to login page after 50 milliseconds set by setInterval callback function. When user is logged in, user can navigate to home screen and click detail page again without loggin in because isLoggedIn state is true.</li>
  <li>By creating custom useLogin hook, we can reuse it in detail page and setting page.</li>
</ul>
<h4>3. Challenges: Create a custom hook for network status monitor.</h4>
<ul>
  <li>npm install --save @react-native-community/netinfo</li>
  <li>Create a new file and import netinfo: import { useNetInfo } from "@react-native-community/netinfo";</li>
  <li>Create a hook function and name it to 'useNetworkStatusEffect'.</li>
  <li>Export the hook so that can use in other component.</li>
  <li>isConnected is a boolean or null type, to check for any active network connection.</li>
  <li>isInternetReachable is a boolean or null type, to check for if the internet is reachable with the currently active network connection.</li>
  <li>Double ?? in the return statement is JavaScript logical <a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Nullish_coalescing_operator">nullish coalescing operator</a>. When the expression on the left side of the mark is null or undefined, its return the expression on the right side of the mark, otherwise returns its left-hand side operand.</li>
    
  <pre>
    import { useNetInfo } from "@react-native-community/netinfo";
    
    //Assign boolean type to property of 'isNetworkConnected'.
    export const useNetworkStatusEffect = (): {isNetworkConnected: boolean} => {
    //Assign useNetInfo library to netInfo to use its properties.
    const netInfo = useNetInfo();
    //Pass in two parameters either isConnected or isInternetReachable.
    const isNetworkConnected = (netInfo.isConnected || netInfo.isInternetReachable);
    return { isNetworkConnected: isNetworkConnected ?? false };
    };
  </pre>
  
  <li>Export custom useNetworkStatusEffect to useResults.tsx</li>
  <li>Declare the custom hook on the top of the component function.</li>
  <li>Use useEffect hook to handle the network checking status.</li>
  
  <pre>
    useEffect(() => {
    //If there is a network problem, set the message to errorMessage state, else return empty string.
    setErrorsMesg(
      isNetworkConnected 
      ? ""
     : "network is currently disconnected. Please try again later.");
     //render once only if there is changes in isNetworkConnected then output the error message
  }, [isNetworkConnected, setErrorsMesg]);
  </pre>
  
</ul>
