# Learning Journal 08th Jun 2022
## Installing Of Android Studio on Mac
### What I Learnt Today
#### 1. React Native: [Setting up the development environment](https://reactnative.dev/docs/environment-setup)
- Install [JDK](https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/install/installation-jdk-macos.html#GUID-2FE451B0-9572-4E38-A1A5-568B77B146DE) 11 or newer.
- Install [Android Studio](https://developer.android.com/studio/index.html).
- Ensure the following 3 items are checked and installed while on the installation wizard:
  - Android SDK
  - Android SDK Platform
  - Android Virtual Device
#### 2. Configure the ANDROID_SDK_ROOT environment variable
- Open up terminal (I'm using zsh).
- Type <code>\~/.zprofile</code> or <code>~/.zshrc</code>.
- When I enter <code>\~/.zprofile</code>, terminal show <code>zsh: no such file or directory: /Users/jansongan/.zprofile</code>.
- When I enter <code>\~/.zshrc</code>, terminal show <code>zsh: permission denied: /Users/jansongan/.zshrc</code>.
- After searching for some [solution](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/28296237/set-android-home-environment-variable-in-mac), found out need to include nano at the front. <code>nano ~/.zshrc</code>
- According to [Apple](https://support.apple.com/en-sg/guide/terminal/apdb02f1133-25af-4c65-8976-159609f99817/mac), nano is a simple command-line editor. It’s a good introduction to using a command-line editor because it includes easy-to-follow on-screen help. 
- After entering to the config file, add the following lines:
```
export ANDROID_SDK_ROOT=$HOME/Library/Android/sdk 
export PATH=$PATH:$ANDROID_SDK_ROOT/emulator
export PATH=$PATH:$ANDROID_SDK_ROOT/platform-tools
```
- Ensure to change the ANDROID_SDK_ROOT path to the default path which can be found at Android Studio: <code>Open up Android studio -> More Actions -> SDK Manager: Android SDK Location</code>
- Once confirmed, ctrl + x to exit.
- Close the terminal and reopen another one.
- Enter <code>adb</code> ([Android Debug Bridge](https://developer.android.com/studio/command-line/adb)) to confirm Android SDK is installed on the correct path. (Android Debug Bridge (adb) is a versatile command-line tool that lets you communicate with a device. ).
#### 3. Issues
- After install Android Studio, IOS unable run on share_frontend repo. Before was fine. Will try to figure out what happen.
- IOS build failed.
- Able to run on web and Android


